So function sampling is all nice and good but ultimately is a huge risk.
And as it happens with huge risk,
something only solution for the problem and for some problem is bound to be sub optimal.
Otherwise it would be a definite solution for all the cases.
Now, this situation you might consider is when we actually want to explore ASAP.
So you have a chance at free exploration,
say you're training to optimize something in a simulation where
samples don't cost you actual money or you are currently,
if you're trying to show ads you have some fraction of
your user base which are ready to sacrifice as
long as you get to a good exploitation strategy later on.
You want to explore as fast as possible.
You have to quickly learn which action is the best with at least some confidence ratio.
So you want to explore an action in other words.
Until you are 95 percent sure that it's sub optimal.
And then you're going to drop it, because,
well, there's no more point in exploring it.
This brings us to a family of exploitation strategies called the upper confidence bound,
and they are just what they sound.
The upper confidence bound on the distribution.
What happens is, so the sampling from each distribution we computed say 95 percent
percentile or 90 percent percentile or 99
depending on how you want to explore it or exploit.
And you pick whichever action has highest percentile.
On the block there are three dots representing those percentiles,
and this case will always going to pick
the green action because it's percentile lies ahead.
But what would happen if it was say, 50 percent percentile?
Yes, in this case you would exploit more and pick the orange action.
This actually gives you a parameter that you can
adjust and even change over time just like epsilon.
You can start with a percentile around say,
99 and then gradually move it closer to point five.
This method actually allows you to explore more quickly or,
it would emphasize exploration at the cost of,
sometimes, taking actions that may lead huge harms way
Because not all actions are guaranteed to give you positive rewards.
And it might be discouraged when you're actually
working with some hardware which is costly.
For example, if you're training a real robotic car,
you better not explore that vigorously.
So alternatively, you can try to take some lower percentile.
Just make sure that the previews you've
completely crash in your robotic car is as low as possible.
But for now let's stick with the original one.
So imagine you have those belief distributions,
and what I want you to do is,
I want you to make your agent always speak in
action which has highest 95 percentile of returns.
What's going to happen is pretty similar with the dynamics of the function sampling.
This green action is optimal actually but we haven't learned yet.
It will eventually grow to this heel on the first row,
and will switch from exploring the connection
to exploiting the real action since the optimal one now.
However, if this green action is actually bad,
then depending on how much is it worse than the orange one,
sooner or later it's going to get closer to this blue curve and we'll drop it,
we'll keep exploiting the orange one.
What's going to happen is,
if this green action is viciously bad, dramatically bad,
it's like minus 1000 bad,
then you'll only need, say,
two or three, or maybe even one attempt
at it to find out that it's actually bad and drop it completely.
It will just shrink and get as far to the left as you can imagine.
But if it's only slightly worse than the orange action,
it makes sounds that you have to exploit
more to find out which of them is actually better.
Because at this rate, you have to pick up a lot of samples.
And this is actually very convenient because, for free,
this algorithms allows you to find out which experiments,
which exploration is better and which is worse.
This case, it prefers exploration which it can not
yet decide which of the actions is better.
Of course there are two actions like the blue one,
which are close to each other but that simply will just
ignore them altogether because while it's something you wish with them is better,
and you don't care, only the best action.
In multi-step decision process,
this picture gets a little bit more complicated,
because now you have multiple states,
and for each one,
the cue value of action might be different.
At the worst case you have to maintain one block like this,
one set of beliefs for each state,
that there is continuously many state,
you have to approximate this thing with some particular machine learning model,
maybe a deep learning as usual.
These are all nice properties but so far we've ignored the elephant in the room.
We have for beauties those beliefs and if we know the belief distribution,
we can easily get some exploration that are strategy up and running, how do we get them?
How do we find those beliefs or their percentile or whatever.